---
layout: post
title: My Path into Software Development
---
My path into the world of software development has been a circuitous one. That’s probably true for a lot of developers. Growing up, I always wanted to be a doctor. My first year in college, I still wanted to be a doctor; therefore, I chose Chemistry as my major. As a sophomore I decided that pharmacy school was a better choice for me than medical school, largely because it was more conducive to also raising the family I wanted. As a junior in college, I decided I really wanted to take advantage of the exceptional language programs offered by the university I was attending. I still kept my sight on pharmacy school, but I changed my major to Linguistics with a minor in Chemistry. I truly loved both my study of different languages and cultures as well as my study of science and math as required for medical school.

My senior year in college I met and married my now-husband. He was just starting out in his schooling, so we put my pharmacy school on hold, until he could finish his degree. Subsequently, we decided that if we wanted to have kids it was probably a good idea to start our family right away, before I got too far along in my career.

In the following few years, my husband and I had two little girls join our family. As my husband studied at the university, he chose to complete a degree in Information Technology. As he took his diverse courses, including programming and networking courses, I would ask him about what he was learning and he would teach me what he happened to be working on. I liked it so much I decided to enroll myself and take a couple of computer science courses at the university. I took a C# programming course and a Web Development course. I did fine in the web development course which focused primarily on HTML, CSS, and Javascript. However, I really loved the C# course. I loved the math and logic of the language. I loved problem solving. It was satisfying to write programs that actually provided a function.

As my responsibilities at home increased, I changed a lot of things to put my focus on raising my girls. I wasn’t able to take any other programming courses at the university, though I did try to keep my feet wet by doing little online tutorials. I also tried to increase my understanding of hardware and software by independently studying the material covered in the A+ Certification for IT professionals.

It wasn't until my husband finally completed his degree, and life somewhat settled down that we started discussing my career and the options for going back to school. At that point I had decided I wanted to pursue a technical career. We considered a lot of different options including bootcamps, online schools, and local universities. Ultimately, I wanted more than what a 12-week bootcamp offered but needed the flexibility of an online program. In our research, we were introduced to Bloc’s year-long, full-time program and decided it was a perfect fit for my needs.

Since enrolling in Bloc, I have re-realized the satisfaction of programming. It seems to combine my two loves from college of language and math to create valuable products and solutions. Overall, I feel that though my journey into software development has been a long time in the making, it is a journey I am just starting out and I am excited to see where it is going to take me.
